---
author:
- Edward Hernández
bibliography:
- 'narrative.medicine.bib'
title: 'Shared Trauma and Healing in Toni Morrison’s *Home*'
...

Introduction
============

Toni Morrison, in the novel *Home*[@Morrison12], explores the themes of
shared suffering and shared healing. In the text, Frank Money, a Korean
War veteran, struggles with moral injury both from the war and from his
childhood. At the same time, he must rescue and care for his sister Cee,
who is physically ill, having been subjected to inhumane
experimentation. This paper will examine this narrative arc and its
implications for healing through the narrative medicine lens provided by
Rita Charon.[@Charon06 ch. 6] Charon identifies five elements of a text
to which a close reading ought to attend: frame, form, time, plot, and
desire. Each is critical to a full appreciation of *Home*., but for the
sake of depth, I will focus on two in this paper: form and desire.

Form
====

The form in which the narrative of *Home* is told is striking. Even
assigning a genre to the text is tricky. As Leah Hager Cohen describes
it, it is [@HagerCohen12] Beyond the genre confusion, the text is odd in
that it is quilted together of dissimilar pieces, told by two narrators
of different types, with wildly different styles. Some chapters feature
a seemingly omniscient narrator (who can somehow be misled by Frank’s
narrative) telling Frank and Cee’s stories in the third person with
smooth, controlled prose. Others are told by Frank himself, in short,
jagged, halting, first-personal sentences. While Frank is not an
omniscient narrator, he speaks directly with the reader and the other
narrator. These stylistic choices serve to highlight Frank’s complex
relation to his own story. It is his story in that it is about him. It
is the story of his life, of his childhood, his experience in the war,
his journey to rescue his sister. But no matter how personal it is, the
story does not belong solely to him. It is also Cee’s story, of their
shared childhood, of her rescue by Frank, of how his experiences impact
her. It is the story of the killed man, of his death, of the children
witnessing his burial, of his ritual re-burial. These stories cannot be
fully told without being told together.

In the same way that the story cannot be individual, Frank and Cee do
not suffer in isolation. Frank suffers in the same way as many veterans
of combat. His time on the battlefield in Korea damages his mind and his
spirit. He experiences what Rita Nakashima Brock calls which she
describes as [@Brock15] He killed a Korean girl during the war, knowing
full well that the act was horrible. This produced cognitive dissonance
between his positive, righteous self image, feeling ,[@Morrison12 p.
133] and the guilt and shame he felt for for his actions. While Frank’s
suffering stems from very personal experiences, many veterans commit or
experience similar horrors, and subsequently have to deal with the same
sort of dissonance and injury. Frank’s moral pathology is shared by many
who fought with him.

Similarly, Cee’s encounter with the eugenicist doctor is part of a
larger pattern, of exploitative, non-beneficent research on Black bodies
and on Black women’s reproductive systems specifically. White science
and medicine have long been attracted to the study of the Other.
Throughout the 19th century, Khoikhoi women like Saartjie Baartman were
studied and exhibited while they were alive, and dissected after they
were dead, to discover the secrets of their physiological (especially
sexual) differences from the white body.[@Qureshi04] As recently as
1972, the Public Health Service studied the effects of syphilis on black
men’s reproductive systems without offering them any treatment or even
notifying them that they had the disease. Perhaps the most striking
similarity to Cee’s case is the work of J. Marion Sims, considered ,
whose work consisted primarily of inhumane exploratory surgery on
enslaved black women without anesthesia.[@Spettel11] Cee, like Frank,
suffers together with others who have similar traumatic experiences. The
sharing of particular sorts of experiences is not the only way that the
sufferers of trauma are tied together, however. This is perhaps more
visible in the case of the killed man. Neither Frank nor Cee are killed
with him, nor do they see him killed. They do not interact with him
while he is alive, nor do they knowingly interact with his killers.
Nonetheless, they are affected by his death. Seeing him buried is a
traumatic experience which haunts both of them for years. Being in the
same community as those who undergo trauma affects all members of the
community in some way, however small. Additionally, recent research is
beginning to show that this sort of trauma can be passed down, from one
generation to the next,[@Dias14; @Love10] meaning that our stories are
inseparable not only from everyone currently in our communities, but all
those who came before us. This is part of why the text must be written
from multiple different perspectives. I also argue that the distinct
narrative style in which the novel is written indicates a particular
relationship between the narrators: that the text is a retelling of
Frank’s story by the second narrator, as he confessed it. In work about
the effects of war, moral injury, and the healing power of narratives,
many authors retell the stories of their
patients.[@Shay95; @vanDernoot09; @Brock15; @Charon06] This amplifies
those patients’ voices, allowing their narratives to reach (and be
healing tools for) a wider readership. Often, the authors of these
retellings will quote their patients, to allow them to retain their
agency and express their ideas directly to the reader. I hold that it is
exactly this sort of relationship which exists between Frank and the
narrator. Frank even notes in Chapter 1 that the other narrator is
[@Morrison12 p. 6] This relationship explains both the dual narration
and the fallibility of the seemingly omniscient narrator. Frank tells
the story, the narrator retells it, sometimes quoting him directly to
show the emotional power of his account. This account explains the style
of the novel down to the typography: Frank’s chapters are italicized:
they are quoted. As Frank is unreliable as a source of information, the
other narrator, who relies on his account, is likewise unreliable.

Desire
======

Frank, as a narrator, desires to admit his experiences to the reader. We
see this in his hedging comments to the narrator; he wants to ensure
that she gets it right, that she understands.[@Morrison12
p. 6, 42, 70, 84] He struggles throughout the novel to tell us the
truth, and as the novel progresses, this produces in the reader a
growing desire to know the truth. In chapter 15,[@Morrison12 p. 133] he
finally gives in, and tells us what he has been withholding, that he
killed the Korean girl. It is hard to say that this realization gives
the reader any , but it certainly releases much of the pent-up
anticipation, anxiety, and curiosity about Frank’s wartime experiences.
Anxiety has been building as Frank’s wartime imagery gets increasingly
graphic and violent with each chapter, starting with the outright denial
of violence in Chapter 1 and ending with a graphic description of the
dead Korean girl in Chapter 9.[@Morrison12 Ch. 1, 3, 5, 7, 9] Reaching
the culmination and catharsis with Frank as he finds the resolve to tell
the truth satisfies both the narrator’s and reader’s desires at once. As
unpleasant as it is to read, it is a release, a satisfaction, and thus a
as Roland Barthes discusses them.[@Charon06 p. 124] Likewise, Frank. as
a character, wants closure for the killed man. After seeing him buried,
he is so traumatized that he either forgets the experience or claims to
(much like the story of shooting the girl).[@Morrison12 p. 5-6] I would
argue that seeing the man unceremoniously buried constituted a moral
injury undermining Frank’s moral beliefs about the value of life.
Whether or not he remembered, and whether or not the injury was moral,
he is haunted by the experience, and cannot make peace with it until
years later, when he is able to return to the burial site and give the
man a proper, marked grave. This resolution, propelled by the desire of
Frank the character, is a *pleasure* to the reader as well. It is the
happiest ending we can hope for in a story of trauma: the characters who
survive make peace with it and begin to heal. This ritual heals not only
Frank, whose desire propels it, but Cee as well, who, as we see in the
final scene, was also haunted by the killed man. Hager Cohen points out
that this realization, that Cee also sees the man, [@HagerCohen12]
Nakashima Brock briefly discusses this idea as well in an interview. She
describes the ways in which her father’s wartime experience was a shared
trauma among her family, to whom he returned almost
unrecognizable.[@Brock15] Since we as people and communities are so
intertwined, we inevitably share our trauma and our pathology. We share
our desire for healing just as narrator, character, and reader share the
desire in *Home*. We must harness this connectedness, our shared desire,
to heal as communities, just as we are hurt as communities.

Conclusion
==========

Moral injury is pernicious. It not only harms us deeply, but it harms
those around us, and largely, it harms us without us knowing. Since most
of us have little to no understanding of what it is to be morally
injured, we have no understanding of how to heal from these injuries.
Some work is being done to give a psychological account of moral injury,
and suggest clinical practices for its treatment,[@Litz09] but the work
is far from complete, and what sparse recommendations there are for
treatment rely on the presence of [@Litz09 §7.2] Treatment under this
model may include [@Litz09 §7.2.5] This recommendation a step in the
right direction, as it acknowledges the importance of human interaction,
of conversation, of confession, in the healing of moral injury. The idea
is good; however, the implementation is not sufficient.

Can we believe that Frank would heal, if he were to only *imagine*
telling the truth? What if he were not to confess to the reader and the
other narrator, but rather pretend to? What if he were to imagine asking
the men on the porch about the Could he have found any closure without
their input? To suggest that he could is to underestimate the importance
and power of community. This mistake is typical of a psychological
paradigm which embraces controlled environments and clinical tests and
fails to incorporate and embrace the complexities of spirits and the
communities to which they are tied. This sort of focus leads us to
envision healing happening internally, person by person. This is
inherently limiting. Even if Frank might find some solace in imagining
conversations, would that help Cee to heal? She needs the community to
participate in her healing, both physically and psychologically. The
women are essential to her healing physically. She could not heal by
imagining their ministrations. Likewise, she would not begin to heal her
trauma from witnessing the man killed in the [@Morrison12 137] without
the ritual she shares with Frank. If Frank did not perform the burial
ritual with Cee (even if he had imagined it), she would not have found
closure.

Moreover, healing from moral injury is not only to alleviate our
individual distress, but also to [@Brock12 p. 116] We cannot renew
connections by imagining them. We cannot connect by imagining
connection. Brock and Lettini, in *Soul Repair: Recovering from Moral
Injury after War*,[@Brock12] suggest that healing requires a reclamation
of moral integrity that is impossible alone, and that dialogues
[@Brock12 p. 112] Instead of *imagined* conversations, we ought to
encourage *actual* conversations and rituals,[@Brock15] so that those
affected by trauma can heal together, as a community. Toni Morrison’s
*Home* points us toward the answer: we desire to tell the truth to each
other, to hear the truth from each other, and when we do, we can begin
to heal together.
