---
...

Terminal Device
===============

Jennifer Lee
------------

Physical therapy is in the basement of the hospital, and they send them
down in wheelchairs right after surgery. It hurts, and people are always
telling me what they can’t do—like I’m their sister and this is some
confidence they share—but it’s best to get them moving as soon as
possible.

This morning one of the orthopedic surgeons came down early. “I’m
sending you a new patient today, a young woman just home from Brookes.
She tore the lateral exterior ligament of her right knee in an
explosion. She has more serious injuries—burns to the face and neck, two
trans-radial amputations—but all you’ll need to deal with is the knee.”
He smacked his clipboard with his knuckle and said, “I thought you
should have a heads-up.”

I’ve seen some of these kids coming back from Iraq, and I’m grateful for
the heads up. Last October one of the vascular surgeons spent two weeks
of his vacation as a volunteer in Landstuhl, Germany. He came back with
a laptop full of photographs. There were pictures of an amputation, the
brown hairs of a thigh growing wavy and clean right up to the knob of
what used to be a knee. There were pictures of debridements, gloved
hands scrubbing away necrotic flesh. He showed us the mobile ICUs, how
they shipped kids home like expensive meat, their abdomens open, packed
with gauze and wrapped in plastic, a bin of blood product next to the
gurney, both bolted to the floor.

The patient’s name is Kelly Graham, and she arrives ten minutes early,
her wheelchair pushed by a big man with a silver-gray crew cut and blue
eyes. Probably he’s retired military, had his own wretched war and got
lucky, came home whole.

“I’m Mike Graham, Kelly’s dad,” he says, and we shake hands. He has a
way of blinking his eyes that draws attention. I can’t tell if it’s a
nervous tic or something he does, almost unconsciously, to keep from
crying. He kisses his daughter goodbye, tenderly, on the cheek. She has
a beautiful mouth, untouched by the burns. Her eyebrows are growing
back, stubby and white, and her eyes are blue, like her father’s.

“I’m Jamie Faust,” I say, realizing I don’t know what to do with my
hands. Kelly is missing both of hers. Her arms end in stumps just below
the elbows. “Let’s get you up on the table. Let me know if anything
hurts.” I hold Kelly just above her elbow, help her balance as she
levers her weight up on the one good leg. She towers over me. Even in
this condition I can sense her strength.

“They’re not as sensitive as they look,” she says. “The stumps, I mean.
They said they’ll stay red and puffy for a while, but I’ve already been
fitted with the prostheses. Once I start walking again, I’ll start
wearing them. One thing at a time, you know?”

She tries to laugh, but I can hear her throat closing up.

Remaining cheerful and upbeat is a physical therapist’s best option, so
I say, “You might not make spring skiing, but I think we’ll have you up
and running by the time the slopes reopen in November.”

She smiles at that, lays back on the table with her arms close to her
sides as I lift her leg and get started, finding the limits of her
range, how much pressure she can take.

When I get home it is still light outside, but in Colorado, evening
comes down cold and fast. The house is empty, and I turn my back on it.
There is always this moment before I open the door and turn on the light
when I am filled with a quiet dread. I stand on the porch and watch the
sky as it turns a pale blue before sunset, and then darkens, a hint of
turquoise in the west. I watch, standing in the cold, blowing on my
hands, and listen to the trucks far off on the highway. Night arrives
and at last I turn the key in the lock and go inside.

Twilight reminds me of the ranch we had when I was growing up. I was an
only child, and I rode the county bus an hour to school where I’d sit
warm and sleepy under fluorescent lights until it was time to leave.
Filling the stock tank and throwing hay to the dairy cows in the evening
were chores I did after my long ride home, and it was usually dark by
the time I finished. I loved it.

On weekends I spent as much time as possible outdoors, holding the hens
and petting their stiff, smooth feathers, running a stick against the
rails of fences. If I wasn’t outdoors I was expected to help my mother
in the house. We were poor enough that we still washed our laundry
through an old wringer. My hands got so red and cold hauling the sopping
jeans and flannel shirts through the wheels. It was the thing I hated
most, and my mother always asked me to help her. She had arthritis, and
her hands would swell so bad sometimes she could barely hold a potato.
“Jamie,” she’d say. “This is no kind of life.” One or the other of them,
my parents, were always telling me that.

When I have a patient in physical therapy, a brief and sudden intimacy
forms. Kelly Graham is coming in five days a week, and I’m seeing more
of her than any other person I know. Her knee will heal, and then our
relationship will end. The only question is how long it will take.

This girl is going to get back on her feet again. She’s determined, sets
goals; she is thinking of training for the Washington, D.C. Marine Corps
Marathon in October. Her father, Mike, brings her in every day. He could
use some therapy on his knees too, the way he shuffles around. But he
isn’t paying any attention except to Kelly. “How’s she doing?” he asks.
He asks me that every time.

I can tell she is all he has. “She’s amazing,” I tell him. It’s what he
needs to hear, but it’s also the truth. I’ve never seen anyone try so
hard. It puts me to shame. And I vow, in any way that counts, to be more
like her.

A couple weeks pass before I summon the courage to ask Kelly about her
injuries. I can guess, but something about talking to a girl with a
burnt face and no hands and not asking what happened—something about
that seems like the heart of cowardice.

Kelly is sitting in a raised chair doing quad lifts. Weights are
strapped to her ankle, and I am watching closely to make sure she
doesn’t cheat or overdo it.

“How long were you in Iraq?” I ask.

“Ten months. Long enough to feel at home, I guess.”

“You must have been close to the people on your team. That’s what I’ve
heard about the military—that there is such camaraderie.”

“Yeah, that’s true. My unit—we defused mines—we’d ride around in an
armored truck all day looking for explosives. Work like that does lead
to close bonds.”

Kelly is staring with fierce concentration at her foot, lifting and
lowering it in a slow, rhythmic motion. Neither of us is enjoying this
conversation, but we’re in too deep to back out now.

“Is that how you ended up here,” I ask, “defusing a bomb?”

She sighs, letting her muscles rest at the end of the set. “If I’d
defused it, the mine wouldn’t have blown up in my face, ripping my hands
off. But, yeah, that’s pretty much how it happened.”

Soon she’s walking without a brace. She’s wearing her prostheses too.
The artificial limbs strap across her back and chest and respond to the
muscles of her upper arms and shoulders. Her arms end in pincer-like
metal claws called terminal devices. They rest in a closed position, and
Kelly’s face is a grimace of concentration when she struggles to grasp a
doorknob, or a water bottle, or a towel. She has mastered moving pins on
the weight machines, tapping in codes on the electric pad of the
elliptic. She can use the water fountain or a touch-tone phone. The fine
points of touch and pressure are relatively easy; it’s grasping and
holding on that are hard.

She works out on the treadmill. She started with power walking, but in
no time she was running the hell out of that machine. From the waist
down she looks like a college-age jock, pretty legs someone else shaves
for her pounding out eight-minute miles. Above the waist Kelly is
another person, her arms pumping along handless or strapped into the
claws, depending on her mood. The scars on her face are bright red from
exercise, and her short blonde hair lies plastered to her head with
sweat. I cheer her on; her marathon dream is for real.

There is a high school kid in therapy, healing from a ski accident. He’s
come in a handful of times, a nice kid, but this is the first time his
schedule has overlapped with Kelly’s. He can’t take his eyes off her. I
want to smack him, smack that look of sick fascination off his face, but
Mike is here so I pretend not to notice. I sail around the room with my
chin high, trying to smile.

At the end of her workout Kelly is drying off in the locker room, the
terry cloth towel clutched in the terminal device, her movements jerking
and unpracticed. Her face, especially the burn scars, is flaming red.
She catches my eye, her lips pursed white, and says, “I used to be
pretty.”

I have an old cigar box of pictures from when I was young. In it there
is a picture of my mother in a pretty print dress, reaching up to pin a
shirt to the laundry line. She doesn’t seem to know that someone is
taking her picture, her head tilted upward in profile, her arm a
graceful curve. It is shocking how beautiful she was, and I guess the
picture was taken when I was a baby or before I was born. I don’t
remember her so lovely. There are only a few photographs in the box.
When my parents passed away, their scant possessions became mine. They
left little behind. I don’t know why there are so few photographs, if
it’s because no other pictures were taken, or because all the rest were
destroyed.

When I was seven years old I had a pony named Duck, a black and white
piebald with a shaggy mane that fell from his crest like grass, hiding
his neck. I’d put a bridle on him and clutch the braided reins and
handfuls of mane and ride bare-back over the fields, pretending I was a
medicine man on a secret mission for my tribe. There is a photograph of
me and Duck in the cigar box. Duck is saddled and I have on a red cowboy
hat and fancy boots.

I don’t know how my parents ever afforded a pony. Most likely Duck was a
hand-me-down from a neighbor, complete with saddle and bridle. In those
days my parents would have been hard pressed to afford the red cowboy
hat.

They were small-town people, my parents. My mother knew how to keep
house and keep a budget. My father could work land and mend machinery.
There is an old snapshot of them standing on a porch, their arms around
one another and squinting into the sun. I suppose at one time they had
dreamed of a little farm together. But as I remember it, that dream must
have soured on them. Neither one of them noticed anything but hard work
and poor returns. My father was always looking at the ground, lumbering
about as he moved equipment, put up feed. He didn’t talk much, and he
wasn’t easy to approach. He hired drifters from time to time, usually in
summer or fall when there was the most work to be done. There was a
little room off of the dairy barn, warm and sweet smelling like the
cows, where the hired hand lived. We never had more than one fellow at a
time; there was work enough, but no money.

I don’t know what became of Duck when my parents finally gave up on
ranching. They passed away years ago, and there’s no asking the
questions that have stayed with me from all those early years. We moved
to town before I was ten. My dad worked in auto repair and I walked to
school. There are no pictures in the box from that time.

I am sitting one day with the calendar out in front of me, ready to
schedule Kelly’s sessions for the coming month. I’m nervous because I
know Kelly doesn’t need to be in rehab anymore, and probably it is
unethical for me to keep her on the books. She’s well enough to stop
physical therapy for her knee. She could have stopped weeks ago. Kelly
is looking restless across the desk from me. She has something to say,
and I am afraid it is good-bye.

Instead, she says, “Jamie, I want to ask you something.”

I look at Kelly and give her my most encouraging therapist smile, pencil
poised above the calendar. “Sure,” I say, “what is it?”

“I want to ask if you’ll help me train for the marathon. Outside of
here, I mean.”

“Okay,” I say slowly. I don’t really understand what she means.

“I want to start running outdoors,” she explains, “but I need a partner.
I don’t feel ready to be on my own yet. My dad would do it, but his
knees are crap. I know it’s a lot to ask, and I’ll understand if you
don’t want to.”

I’m surprised. I’m not someone people often turn to when they seek
companionship. My colleagues tell me I don’t smile enough. I’ve never
minded being a loner, but Kelly is different. I nod my head, trying not
to look too happy or relieved. “I want to,” I tell her. “Yes, I’ll help
you train outdoors.”

As the weather gets warmer, we run together more and more. We stop often
because the prosthetics chafe Kelly’s skin. Sweat runs down her neck and
shoulders and gets under the straps and the cups. I’m secretly grateful
for the chafing; Kelly can run me into the ground on her worst days, and
as I help her readjust the prostheses, reapplying Vaseline to the raw
spots, I get a chance to catch my breath.

Kelly likes to do for herself. As much as possible she manages the
readjustments of her clothes and equipment. Her goal is complete
independence. I’ve no doubt she’ll get there. The hardest thing I’ve
watched her do is tie her shoes. It can take a quarter of an hour for
her to get them done, and when she stands up from it, her face is
flushed and sweating.

“Why don’t you get Velcro shoes?” I ask her.

“Because I need the practice,” she says, pulling evenly on the laces,
trying to get the tension right.

She shakes out her arms, tired from the exertion. “When I get good at
this, then I’ll switch to Velcro.”

As our runs get longer and the weather gets hotter, Kelly and I both
start wearing Camelbaks, small, close-fitting backpacks filled with
water that hug the spine between the shoulder blades. On the day we
finish our first thirteen-mile run—half a marathon—Kelly turns to me and
says, “Well?”

I am bent over at the waist, trembling with exhaustion. “Well, what?” I
say.

“Well, are you going to run the marathon with me or not?”

I shake my head, laughing, surprised that I hadn’t considered this. I
can’t imagine giving up my runs with Kelly, even though she’s confident
now and doesn’t need me anymore. Rather, I am the one who needs
something. I realize I’m prepared to go all the way, all twenty-six
miles. I smile at her and say, “I’ve come this far, haven’t I?”

Runners hate to carry extra weight, even their clothes and shoes are
scrutinized for extra ounces. No one races with a Camelbak. We practice
the water station behind Kelly’s house. It’s a beautiful place with
fields and a stand of aspen on a low hill, the Rocky Mountains behind.
It is situated a little like my childhood ranch. Kelly’s dad still farms
a bit, raising hay for his neighbors, and he’s got an old John Deere in
the barn and a great roll of hay that has lasted over the winter off in
a field near the fence line. My throat tightens when I see this; it’s as
if Mike is some version of my own father, one not beaten down by
adversity, only humbled by it. Mike hobbles around on his bad knees,
happy to have Kelly home. He and I set up a card table with paper cups
filled with water and try to hand one to Kelly as she runs past. But
every time, Kelly has to walk to take the water, and often enough the
cup slips from the claw or is crushed in the grip before she can get a
drink. Her dad says, “Honey, I think you’re going to have to wear that
Camel thing.” Kelly nods, finally giving up on the water cups. About
thirty of them lie crumpled in the grass at the foot of the table.

Kelly will be carrying a lot of weight in the race. In addition to the
Camelbak, she’s going to wear the prostheses, and each of those is close
to two pounds. But Kelly is a soldier at heart and knows how to train;
the extra weight will hardly slow her down.

One of the hired hands that stayed with us a while was a man named Tom
Fallen. He had served in Vietnam, came home with a bullet wound in his
leg. He hadn’t been back in the States long when my father found him
hanging around the hardware store, looking for work. My father had
served in WWII and went out of his way for the vets. One of the few
things he talked much about was how badly they were treated. There would
be a piece on the news about protests and insults toward the soldiers,
and he’d start to fume. “People have no shame,” he’d say. “Those boys
are serving their country. Folks should go over and see what it feels
like, walking through a jungle and getting shot at. Then let them come
home and do their spitting.”

We had more than one vet come through, work on our land as he got his
life back together. I don’t remember the others well, but I guess they
were like Tom. He had a scowling face and worked hard. When he wasn’t
working, he was sitting on the worn-out sofa in the dairy barn room, his
feet up on the chipped coffee table, drinking a beer. I had a crush on
Tom and would follow him around as he dug post holes, mended wire. My
attention seemed the only thing that could make him smile, and I imagine
that’s why I liked him so much. He would give me slow rides on the front
of his motorcycle, up and down the dirt roads. And he was good for rough
play, keeping me at bay easily with one large hand when I charged him
over and over again. Or he would throw me into piles of hay, then chase
me up the bales of it. The only thing about Tom that was scary was a
sensitivity he had about being touched on the face. He had warned me
straight away when we became friends. “Don’t touch my nose,” he said. “I
mean it, I’m not kidding. If you touch my nose, I’ll get a nose bleed.
I’ll beat your butt if you don’t listen to what I’m saying.” Once in
wild play, I swiped his nose by accident, and his face twisted in fury.
He picked me up by the collar of my coat, shook me like a trout and
threw me on the ground. I was wearing a thick down coat but it didn’t
keep me from feeling the ruts in the frozen earth.

I spent all the time I could with Tom. In the evening before supper I
would sit with him on the sofa, watching television and eating pretzels.
I had red sneakers then, and they barely reached the coffee table as I
propped my feet up beside his. My parents were used to me acting this
way. I was alone on the ranch, so it was normal that I would pester the
fellows hired on for the season. “Just send her home when you get tired
of her,” my mother told Tom. My father would tell me, “Let him get on
with his work. Stop bothering the man.”

By the time of the marathon, Kelly is wearing shoes with Velcro
closures. I’ve come to hate my own shoes, which are not Velcro, blaming
them for all the pain. Kelly laughs at me when I complain, holds an
open-clawed terminal device to her forehead and says, “Loser!”

Edward Hernández {#edward-hernuxe1ndez}
----------------

This makes me remember Tom Fallen, the way he used to joke. I realize
that not since Tom have I been teased this way. Not since then have I
had a friend – not a patient – to treat me less than professionally.

Tom used to do this, make a crooked “L” with his big hands, call me a
loser. That was when I knew we were close – that we had truly become
friends – when he started to tease me like that. I had known Kelly and I
were friends already, but something about this confirmation seemed
right.

We walk to the starting line together, and my shoes are already
beginning to hurt my feet. Why have I done this again? Right, to be with
Kelly. I think about me three months ago trying to run this race, and I
laugh. Kelly has changed me already.

She stands tall, eagerly waiting the start of the race. She’s ready –
more ready than I am, more ready than I know how to be. On our training
runs she’s been easily finishing this length of run. I’ve been finishing
too, but not at all easily. I wonder whether I’ll be able to keep up
with her today. I don’t expect to, but I hope –

The pistol fires. Kelly drops, shaking. Just like Tom.

Jennifer Lee
------------

Washington is beautiful in mid-October, not as far advanced in season as
Colorado, and green leaves still cover the trees. Sharp-cut Marines in
organizer T-shirts manage the crowds, direct everything with a smile.
There is a huge enlistment booth covered in red balloons, and young men
and women stop to listen. From fifty yards away I can read a poster in
block letters offering a \$25,000 signing bonus.

“Can you believe that?” I say to Kelly.

She nods, but her eyes are focused in the distance. Because she is tall,
her gaze passes over the shoulders of many, and I wonder what she is
looking at, what she is thinking. Mike is beside her, and his expression
is a mirror of hers. For the first time I wonder about his war, and I am
sure it was Vietnam. I am also sure that, despite appearances, he did
not come home unscathed.

I wonder what happened to Tom Fallen. One morning, the summer before I
started second grade, we were watching cartoons. There was a heat wave
on, and a window fan sucking the hot air from the room was all there was
to relieve the temperature. I was wearing my bathing suit and rolling a
cold can of Coke across my forehead. Tom was stripped down to a pair of
navy blue boxer shorts. He was coming out of the bathroom when my father
opened the door to the apartment. My dad reacted the way I suppose a lot
of fathers would. He took one look at Tom in his underwear, muttered
‘son of a bitch’ under his breath, and hammered a fist into the other
man’s face. Tom flew backward into the TV set, blood spurting from his
nose.

That was the last time I saw him. My father marched me out of the barn
and back to the house, his grip so tight on my arm that he left bruised
fingerprints. While I got dressed, my hands shaking, in jeans and a
T-shirt, I heard my parents yelling at each other below. I stayed in my
room, not knowing what I was supposed to do. I heard the sound of Tom’s
motorcycle, listened to it fade away as he drove off.

By the thirteenth mile I hope I never run another marathon. Marathons
are for people who have something to prove, or something to work out.
I’ve never wanted to count myself among this tribe, but what else can
explain it? It’s no surprise that most marathon runners are over forty,
right about the time that people come smack up against the reality that
life is a mess.

By the twenty-second mile I realize that running a marathon is a form of
self-induced trauma. I imagine in the months to come that the very sight
of my running shoes will trigger PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder. I
think of Kelly’s hands, and I think of the ranch. My parents never
talked to me about what happened. It was just something I carried along.
My father never hired another hand, and I stayed away from the dairy
barn room. In another year, we had left the ranch and lived in town,
where I kept to myself.

I finish my race. Kelly and her dad are here to greet me. Mike grins and
hands me a fresh water bottle and a towel. Kelly is rested and cool from
having crossed the line long before. I let myself collapse against her,
crying, my slimy, anabolic sweat sticky against her dry skin. She holds
me up with her broad shoulders and greater height and wraps her arms
around me. Her laughter is synchronized with my sobs of relief, and I
feel the light, almost absent touch of her mechanical hands, the curved
claws resting against my back.
