# Meanings of "Wading" and "Home"

The word "wade" only occurs two times in the text: when Julian and Velmyra wade
in the creek, and in the title of Julian's album. When they wade in the creek,
it is a communal activity, and they are returning to each other. Wading Home is
also the title of Julian's album, where it gives a name to the experiences he
has throughout the course of the novel. It is his coming-to-terms with the
tragedy, and his success through it. Home has almost countless meanings. In
Chapter 1 alone, home is where you live, where you can't be driven from by
a storm, where friends are, where people speak like you, where you have to
return. To Julian, it also means the South, Silver Creek specifically, family,
and the feeling of playing music from the soul. It means where we are
comfortable or where we are compelled to be. It means not only where we live,
but where our heritage lives.

\clearpage

# Julian

Julian's injury setting back his career is a familiar story to many ill people.
Many who acquire injuries or illness later in life experience this frustration,
this devastation that Julian feels. I was a good soccer player. I played high
school varsity (albeit in a small district) in 8th grade. But I couldn't
continue because I kept breaking bones, and my back and knees started to
deteriorate. My partner is a massage therapist with a degenerative disease that
affects the hands. This story is all too common, and it is devastating each
time. To read about Julian, in the position he's in, I know he's not
emotionally in a place to handle Katrina --- not that anyone ever could be. He
is already off balance, already reeling from other events. He is not at all
over his split with Velmyra, or his injury. He is not set for more trouble, but
"life did not stop." Yet he survives, and thrives, by maintaining and
strengthening his ties to his family, his community, his home.

\clearpage

# Sylvia

Sylvia ties the novel together. She's close to Simon, but also knows Julian
well and is tight with Velmyra. She is kind and loving, and performs gentle,
healing femininity at the heart of the work, tying its other characters
together. She is "motherly," "warm," and "nurturing" by "nature," filling the
gap in Juian's life left by his mother. She similarly heals Simon after
Ladeena's death, essentially nursing him back to the will to live. She also,
mother-like, orchestrates the actions of others, giving them advice and helping
them do what they must. She urges Julian to deal with Parmenter, despite his
feelings about him. Despite this motherlyness, she does not fill the
traditional, normative female roles of wife and mother. She is not Julian's
mother, or a direct surrogate. She is constantly referred to as his father's
friend, and their social standing is such that he uses her first name. She does
not marry Simon, though the possibility is open, because she does not see
a need to change things, to fill that role. She shows us the strength of
femininity to heal, without succumbing to the societal pressures which
accompany womanhood and femininity.
