# Linguistic Relativity and the Boasian Tradition

## 8 September

1.  Franz Boas is usually identified as the founder of
    linguistic anthropology. He was born in Germany but did his research
    and teaching in the USA, focusing on Native American languages. What
    was Boas’ view on the relation between (1) mental/cognitive
    categories and concepts (i.e., thought), (2) a particular language’s
    structures and categories, and (3) that culture’s interests and
    emphases? How does the notion of Versuch fit into this?

2.  Why did Boas believe that studying a culture’s linguistic features
    is an undistorted way of learning about the culture itself?

3.  Boas’ student, Edward Sapir taught linguistics at Chicago and
    anthropology at Yale before the second world war. In what way, as
    Foley says, does Sapir reverse Boas’ view on the relationship
    between language and thought? Why does Foley, like John Lucy (1992),
    use the expression “channels” to describe Sapir’s position?

    -   Language mediates conceptual thinking (or, ‘the form of
        thought’). On p. 198, Foley says that “For Sapir, it is only in
        language that the full potential of thought is unfolded; true
        conceptual thinking is impossible without language because it is
        symbolically mediated….” What do you think (pun intended) Foley
        and Sapir mean in saying that language symbolically mediates
        thought? Please come to class with an example of a kind of
        thinking or a mental operation that could be said to depend on
        the mediation of language and would be, as Sapir says,
        impossible without it?

4.  What is meant by the “mapping view” that Boas, Sapir, and Whorf all
    are opposed to? Please explain Sapir’s discussion (pp. 198-199) of
    the Nootka sentence about the falling stone. How is it intended to
    show the error of the mapping view?

5.  Foley says that Whorf introduced an important distinction between a
    language’s overt and covert categories or classes. (The latter are
    also called ‘cryptotypes’.) Can you explain this distinction by
    reference to some illustrative examples drawn from English (but not
    those mentioned by Foley)? Why did Whorf take cryptotypes to be of
    special importance?

    -   Can you explain the “vacillation” in Whorf”s famous passage
        quoted and discussed by Foley on p. 201, between two different
        kinds of linguistic relativity?

6.  Foley says that Whorf demonstrated his Principle of Linguistic
    Relativity in two ways. The first is exemplified in the English &
    Shawnee example on pp. 202-203. How is this example intended to
    support the Principle?

7.  The second way that Whorf demonstrated the Principle of Linguistic
    Relativity is by reference to what has come to be called “cognitive
    appropriation”. Can you explain what cognitive appropriation is by
    reference to the famous example of ‘empty gasoline drums’
    (pp. 203-204)?

8.  How does Whorf apply this notion of cognitive appropriation to the
    example of the differences between English and Hopi ways of speaking
    about time?
