# Agar p. 31-60

## 1 September

**Note:** There are no RQs for pp. 13-30.

1.  What was different about Saussure’s approach to linguistics from
    that of the historical linguistics in which he was trained?

2.  Why does Agar call Saussure “the founder of
    inside-the-Circle-linguistics”? What does he mean by “the Circle”
    and how does it relate to Saussure’s distinction between
    language (langue) and speech (parole)? What might Agar mean by
    saying that a language in Saussure’s sense is “an idea as old as
    Plato’s cave”?

3.  On pages 42-46, Agar discusses Saussure’s notion of symbolic systems
    (language being one example) as built on two kinds of relations
    between signs: paradigmatic and syntagmatic. Can you give an example
    of each of these two kinds of relations in a symbolic system – your
    own example, not one drawn from the book?\

4.  In what way was the anthropology that Boas was reacting against
    based on ethnocentrism? How did it relate to Darwinian evolutionary
    theory?

5.  What does Agar mean by saying that Boas wanted the anthropological
    description of culture to be objectively about “them”, yet he
    couldn’t help but make it about “his-theirs” (p.50)?

6.  According to Agar (pp. 55-56), how did Bloomfield’s 1933 book on
    linguistics transform the linguistic anthropology of Boas?

7.  What did Boas mean by the principles of linguistic relativity and
    cultural relativity? How do the principles of linguistic and
    cultural relativity contrast with the notion of moral relativity?
