---
...

"Space" & "Toward a New Approach"
=================================

10 September
------------

1.  What are the strong universalist claims about spatial conception,
    which Foley discusses on pages 215-216? If these universalist claims
    about spatial conception are true, what does this imply about
    spatial terms/vocabulary in the languages of the world?

2.  Foley (p. 216ff) discusses research at the Max Planck Institute in
    the Netherlands which has led to a conclusion that is opposed to
    universalist claims about spatial conception and spatial vocabulary,
    a conclusion that is more consonant with the Principle of
    Linguistic Relativity. What is this conclusion? (We’ll get to the
    evidence for it below.) Does it deny that there are any universals
    of spatial conception?

3.  Explain the use of spatial terms in Guugu-Yimidhirr. Using an
    invented example, explain how this contrasts with English use of
    terms like left, right, front, and back. Why is one pattern called
    ‘absolute’ and the other ‘egocentric’ (or ‘relative’)? Why is the
    former better suited than the latter to navigation in open country?

4.  Explain Brown and Levinson’s example (p.217-218) of a dinner party
    at the top of the Centerpoint Tower in Sydney.

5.  Explain the experiments that Levinson (p. 218ff) designed to explore
    differences in the cognitive consequences for speakers using
    absolute or egocentric spatial language.

6.  Explain the spatial system used by the Tzeltal in the Mayan
    community in Mexico and the experiments by Brown and Levinson
    exploring the cognitive influence of this system.

7.  Why are these experiments said to provide “powerful support for the
    Principle of Linguistic Relativity” (p. 221)? Are they evidence
    against the assumption of the psychic unity of humanity?

8.  In “Towards a new approach”, Lucy identifies 4 “requirements for an
    improved approach to research” on the linguistic relativity
    hypothesis (48-49). What are these 4 requirements? How well do you
    think Lucy’s study of number marking in Yucatec Maya and American
    English, discussed pp. 49-52 meets these requirements?
