---
...

Malinowski & Agar 89-107
========================

24 September
------------

In the readings for the two weeks before Fall Break, we will explore
core features of the analytical framework used in
linguistic-anthropological work today. This will help you to understand
and evaluate the journal articles assigned for your class presentations
and critiques in the second half of the semester. This analytical
framework, as Agar points out, is the result of the merging of two
traditions. The first is the Boasian tradition, with its focus on the
structural properties of different languages and their relation to
cultural ‘forms of thought’. The second is the Malinowskian tradition;
here the focus is on discourse and the pragmatic function of language in
concrete contexts-of-situation. The readings for Thursday the 24th –
Agar’s chapter “Situations” and the Malinowski extract “Meaning as a
Function of Words” – are intended to provide an initial introduction to
Malinowski.

The Malinowski extract is from the second volume of his Coral Gardens
and their Magic (1935), one of the books which emerged from Malinowski’s
years of ethnographic research in the Trobriand Islands (near New
Guinea). A core illustration of what Malinowski means by the ‘pragmatic’
(as opposed to the ‘intellectual’) function of words is his discussion
of the Trobriand islanders’ pragmatic use of magic—especially verbal
spells, incantations, curses, blessings, magical formulae—as a central
feature of their agricultural practices.

1.  Starting on page 53, Malinowski discusses the ‘direct pragmatic
    effect of words’, noting in this regard the similarity between
    orders given in battle, cries for help, signatures on checks,
    sacramental vows such as marriage, and the Trobrianders’ use of
    verbal magic. What does he mean by ‘direct pragmatic effect’ of
    words and how is it different from their ‘purely intellectual
    function’? Can you explain this by means of an anecdote from your
    own experience?

2.  On the bottom of page 53, what does Malinowski mean by
    distinguishing between the “imaginary” and the “very real” pragmatic
    effects of magical formulae among the Trobriand? In what way do such
    words “produce an actual change in the universe” (p. 55)?

3.  On p. 52 Malinowski says that “certain words are accepted as
    potentially creative of acts” and can be “equally powerful and
    fateful causes of action”. How could the utterance of the English
    sentence “I love you” in a particular context-of-situation be an
    illustrative example of this?

4.  How does language ideology (beliefs, moral attitudes, etc.) play a
    mediating role in providing the “contextual conditions” and the
    “binding force” for the pragmatic “power of words” (p. 53-56)?

5.  On p. 58, Malinowski claims that the pragmatic function of words
    grounds even the ‘theoretical uses of words in modern philosophical
    and scientific writings’’ and that the difference between such uses
    and “the savage use” is only “a difference of degree”. What sense
    can be made of such a claim?

6.  On pages 58-59, Malinowski discusses the use of speech as ‘the
    connecting medium for coordinating action’, with navigating a
    shallow lagoon in the dark as his example. What example from your
    own experience might provide an example of this that is closer to
    (our cultural) home?

7.  On p. 64 Malinowski says that “the child’s speech can be as
    effective as real magic” and that the source of the “magical
    attitude to words is to be found in the use of words by children”,
    while “the intellectual function of words probably develops later”?
    How does he explain these claims?

8.  In footnote 1 on page 59-60, Malinowski says that “the whole
    treatment of language up until recently has neglected the effective
    use of context of situation”. What does he mean by this? How does
    what Malinowski says relate to Agar’s discussion of his term
    ‘languaculture’ and meaning and culture ‘outside the Circle’ (e.g.,
    page 96)?
