---
...

Silverstein on Shifters, Part II
================================

1 October
---------

You will probably find these pages a good bit more difficult than the
first part of the article. Do your best in making sense of it. Because
of Silverstein’s obsession with formal terminological precision, it may
be hard to recognize, but much of what he discusses you will have
encountered in a more informal way in the Ahern book (pp. 25-30) the
textbook for the Language & Culture course.

The sections which you should give the most attention to are the
following: Indexical Presupposition of Reference, Double-Mode Linguistic
Categories, Peirce’s Trichotomy of Signs, Icons, Symbols, Symbols
vs. Shifters, Indexes, Nonreferential Indexes, Indexical Presupposition,
Indexical Creativity, and Classification of Index Types/Tokens.

These Reading Questions are intended to help you focus on what is most
important for us.

1.  Please use examples of your own invention or experience to explain
    the difference between symbols, icons, and indexes (Peirce’s
    trichotomy of sign modes).

2.  Referential indexes. Using an example, explain how tense indexes
    compare two times: TimeSP and TimeR?

3.  Why have referential indexes been called “shifters”? Why are they
    “duplex signs”?

4.  What is the difference between nonreferential (“pure”) indexes and
    referential indexes?

5.  Silverstein says that nonreferential indexes signal “the structure
    of the speech context” (p. 30)? How, for instance, do the
    sex-indexes of Koasati or Yana do this?

6.  Explain an example of the use of deference indexes as a type of
    nonreferential indexing.

7.  Use examples to explain the difference between presupposing and
    creative indexes. What is different in the way they relate to the
    speech context?

8.  Explain the four-cell classification of the functional
    characteristics of indexes and the placement in the cells of
    Silverstein’s examples, as discussed on pp. 35-36.
