---
...

Agha on Register
================

6 & 8 September
---------------

This reading provides a concise overview of one of the main types of
nonreferential (or “social”) indexicality, focusing on its structural
properties, its pragmatic functions, its subtypes, its effects, its
sociocultural consequences, as well as the concepts and methods needed
to study it. In order for us to have productive class discussions of
register on Tuesday and Thursday, it will help if you give some thought
to your own awareness of registers: in particular, (1) those that you
have active, fluent competence in and (2) those which you passively
recognize but do not actively control (see p. 35 for this distinction).
**Please come to class on Tuesday having reflected on and prepared
yourself to discuss with regard to the RQs below at least one ‘active’
and one ‘passive’ such example.**

1.  Agha defines a register (p.24) as a linguistic repertoire associated
    with particular social practices and people who engage in
    such practices. I’ll call on you for your own examples of registers
    and of the repertoires, practices, and people connected with them.

2.  Why does Agha say (p. 24-25) that the definition above is
    “incomplete”?

3.  Agha describes registers as “historical formations”. In this regard,
    what does he mean by a register’s social domain? Why does he
    describe Standard English as a register (p. 24)?

4.  On p. 25, Agha says that “the utterance of a register’s forms
    formulates a sketch of the social occasion of language use, indexing
    contextual features such as interlocutor’s roles, relationships, and
    the type of social practice they are engaged in”. Describe an
    example (real or invented) of a presupposing use and an entailing
    (or “creative”) use of a particular register.

5.  What distinguishes a metapragmatic stereotype (concerning register)
    from an individual’s metapragmatic typification?

6.  Agha says that metapragmatic activity is not just “a convenience for
    the analyst” but is “a necessary condition for the social existence
    of registers” (p.27). How is it useful for the linguist’s empirical
    study of registers? Why is it a necessary condition for a register’s
    social existence?

7.  What are some examples of what Agha calls ‘institutions
    of (register) replication’? In what way do they cause social
    asymmetries in register competence and boundaries within societies?
    You might draw on your own experience for this.

8.  What factors make it that metapragmatic models of registers are
    typically found to be ideological (in the ‘distorting’ sense)?

9.  Explain how, in Agha’s example, Lakhota gender
    indexicals (pp. 31-33) are used “contrary to stereotype usage”,
    yielding a pragmatic effect of “tropic significance”. In what way is
    this effect “mediated by features of the co-text” in which the
    register feature is “entexutalized”?

10. Come to class with an instance (invented or from your
    own experience) of the “open-ended possibilities of functional
    reanalysis” and/or usage that “tropes on the model itself”.

11. Why does Agha say that an account of a register “is merely a
    sociohistorical snapshot of a phase of enregisterment of linguistic
    features for particular users” (38)?

12. What is an example from your own experience of the “sociological
    fractionation” of a register?

13. Explain how the politeness register has a “semiotic range” (p. 40)
    that extends beyond features of language. In what way does this
    promote what Agha calls “cross-modal iconism” (p.41) so that, for
    instance, people who use politeness (or ‘non-standard’, or
    aristocratic, or ‘feminine’) registers are often thought to be
    themselves naturally polite (or non-standard or aristocratic
    or feminine) people?
