---
...

Duranti - Universal & Culture-Specific Properties of Greetings
==============================================================

20 October
----------

1.  What are the 6 recurring features which Duranti uses as criteria for
    identifying greetings? Be prepared to:

    1.  List these 6 recurring features

    2.  Provide a clear example of a greeting scene – imaginary or real
        – which illustrates each feature on this list and by means of
        which you can explain the feature.

    3.  Explain why you agree/don’t agree with his criteria.

2.  What are Duranti’s objections to the assumption that “greetings have
    no propositional content and their denotational content can be
    largely ignored” (214)? What Samoan example does he use to support
    this objection? Would you say the same about some types of greetings
    in English, or in other languages you are familiar with?

3.  What does Duranti mean in the following: “An empirical investigation
    of when greetings are exchanged throughout a day by a … group who
    repeatedly come into each other’s interactional space might provide
    important clues on how they conceptualize the different space-time
    zones in which they operate” (215)?

4.  What does Duranti mean by the following: “Whatever greetings
    accomplish, they do it by virtue of the participants’ ability to
    match routine expressions with particular sociohistorical
    circumstances” (231)? How does this claim apply to Duranti’s Samoan
    data?

5.  What support does Duranti give for his claim (231) that
    “<span>\[</span>A<span>\]</span>cknowledgment of another’s presence
    per se cannot be the function of greeting, unless we define the
    notion of ‘acknowledgment’ to make it more culture- and
    context-specific” (231)? How does Duranti’s Samoan data support
    this claim?.
