---
...

Morford - French Pronominal Address
===================================

29 October
----------

1.  Brown and Gilman’s analysis argues that pronominal terms of address
    such as T/V (tous/vous) vary in accordance with “the objective
    relationship existing between speaker and addressee” (page 6).
    Explain, using examples from modern French T/V usage, what it would
    mean for the relationship between two speakers to be symmetric,
    asymmetric, or residually symmetric (see pages 12-14). How might the
    French patterns of symmetry/asymmetry/residual asymmetry using tu or
    vous compare to the English pattern of using first name (FN) or
    title + last name (TLN)? Come to class prepared with illustrative
    examples from your own life.

2.  The notion that French society is moving toward “a generalized use
    of tu” (page 4) describes two primary shifts in patterns of
    pronominal address: a shift toward less restricted use of tu in both
    public and private contexts, and a sense that pronominal address has
    become less explicitly oriented toward marking differences in
    social status. Referring to pages 10-12, what could be several
    positive and negative implications of the widespread use of tu? What
    does the author posit as an alternative explanation to the belief
    that French society is moving toward a “generalized” use of tu?

3.  On page 15 Morford discussing the ways in which indexical signs
    relate to the context in which they are used. Indexical signs such
    as T/V pronominals may either presuppose context or
    entail/create context. What might the particular use of ‘tu’ or
    ‘vous’ presuppose in a social context? How might a change in address
    term (from ‘vous’ to ‘tu’ or vice versa) be creative?\
    Be prepared to discuss your own illustrative example of the way in
    which address terms (T/V, FN/TLN, or others) may be used in a
    presupposing or creative way.

4.  According to Morford the French pronominal system is complex
    particular because it involves two distinct “orders of indexicality”
    (page 5 and 16). What is the difference between the first and second
    order of indexicality? Could you use other similar examples in
    English to illustrate these two orders of indexicality?

5.  Morford discusses the second order of indexicality by drawing
    examples of how pronominal address, mediated by various language
    ideologies, indexes the social status, political orientation and age
    of speakers from page 16 to 20. Please explain the specific role
    that language ideologies play in this process by using examples from
    the article or from your own life.

6.  the author discusses on pages 21 - 27 the multiple strategic uses of
    tu and vous: for fostering intimacy, maintaining distance, and
    juggling indexical values. For each of these three uses, come up
    with an example from your own life of speech components that have
    fulfilled these pragmatic functions.
