---
...

Irvine on Honorifics
====================

27 October
----------

1.  What is deference? What are some non-linguistic ways of showing
    deference in your experience?

2.  Please come to class with a couple of your own examples illustrating
    the expression of deference in American languaculture. Do your
    examples make use of specially conventionalized forms that
    linguistic anthropologists call honorifics’?

3.  What does Irvine say is necessary for a linguistic way of showing
    deference to be an honorific register?

4.What is the difference between honorifics (honorification) and
politeness? Use an illustrative example to explain.

1.  What are pejoratives? Are there any pejoratives in a language you
    are familiar with?

2.  Please explain the ChiBemba means of showing deference
    and pejoration.

3.  What does Irvine say are the two main sources of honorific
    expressions? What, in particular, is the source of honorification in
    Tibetan?

4.  Explain the source and use of honorific vocabulary in the Nguni
    languages studied by Irvine (p. 162-163).

5.  What are the different possible ways that the origo and focus of
    honorification can map onto the structure of participant roles in a
    speech event? Use illustrative examples. How can the use of
    honorifics have distinct explicit and implicit pragmatic effects?

6.  How do Brown and Gilman explain the source of pronoun honorifics in
    European languages? What objections are there to this explanation?

7.  Why does Irvine say that honorifics are not just a reflection of
    macrosociological structures?

8.  How are Samoan honorifics used coercively in a way that indexes what
    Irvine calls “respect for respectfulness”?
