# Guugu-Yimidhirr Brother-in-Law Language Reading Questions

1. Agha says that "A register is a linguistic repertoire that is associated, culture-internally, with particular social practices and with persons who engage in such practices." (Agha 24) How is Brother-in-Law speech a register of Guugu-Yimidhirr? What repertoires make it different from the other registers in Guugu-Yimidhirr? (368)
2. Haviland argues that Guugu-Yimidhirr has a hierarchy of words, some of which are restricted from use with different people. Explain the hierarchy of familiarity, respect, and politeness. (382)
3. What differentiates Vulgar words and Impolite words? (381-382)
4. What differentiates Ordinary words and High words? (381-382)
5. Provide some examples of vulgar words that refer to body parts/functions, then correspond them with impolite or euphemistic terms, ordinary words, and high or formal words. 
6. What are some examples of similar avoidance/respect/deference relationships and registers in American English languaculture? Why might we call this type of register "Mother in Law" language? 
7. There are two speakers of Guugu-Yimidhirr. One needs to borrow the other's spear. Neither uses BIL for the interaction.  
Later, one marries the other’s sister. He needs to get his spear back. Both use BIL. How does this scenario show the presupposing and creative characteristics of BIL?
8. These two speakers are talking in a room, but now they do not talk directly at each other. Each addresses a child (their son and nephew, respectively) instead to relay information to the other. How does the BIL register blur Silverstein’s distinction between referential and non-referential indexing? For example, are there ways the two speakers now cannot speak to one another? How might this exhibit both referentiality and non-referentiality? (389)
9. The BIL register is often in a one-to-many relationship with the EV register. This means that there is often a single BIL lexeme that is mapped to multiple EV lexemes, which leads to narrowed semantic differentiations in the BIL register (for instance, 'daarralngan' in BIL register is used to refer to ten different varieties of kangaroo with unique EV lexemes). (371) What are some examples of one-to-many relationships between other registers you are aware of? 
10. What is Haviland's source for characterizing the structure and vocabulary of BIL? How does this methodology affect his results' accuracy? (368)
