---
...

Staging Language in Corsica
===========================

10 November
-----------

1.  In a sentence or two, explain the traditional monolingual/purist
    ideology (166). How does “the symbolic value of the language
    outstrip its everyday use”?\
    Can you relate this to the traditional view of “Standard American
    English” as the “English” language?

2.  The opposite of this monoligual/purist ideology are the plurilingual
    and polynomic ‘ideological positions’. Explain those ideological
    positions as adopted in the four-year language-planning program in
    Corsica (p. 162). Can you think of examples within the US of this
    pluralingual/polynomic distinction?

3.  What are some examples from everyday life of stancetaking that
    you’re familiar with?

4.  With the use of Figure 1 (p. 163) or Figure 3 (p. 179) explain how
    stances taken by the performers attribute stances to the audience.
    How do stance objects play a role in this?

5.  Use the example of the photo slideshow event (event \#3) to explain
    the reciprocity involved in this performance (p. 179).

6.  Be able to distinguish and explain the differences between primary
    and secondary intimacy. How can we see creative and presupposing
    indexicality at play during the sharing of photo memories within the
    slideshow event (p. 179)?

7.  What were some of the ‘intended functions’ of the Casas di a Lingua
    ‘Language Houses’? (p. 161-162).

8.  What are some of the tensions or obstacles you think would come
    about when revitalizing a minority language?

9.  Explain how the four staging events (first cooking event, second
    cooking event, photo slideshow, improvised sketches) have
    increasingly contributed to these goals (as mentioned in RQ7) within
    Corsican language revitalization (p.169-170; 171-172;
    172-175; 175-177).

10. Can the language used during these staging events be considered a
    distinct register of language?
