---
...

Acquisition of Communicative Style in Japanese
==============================================

17 November
-----------

1.  What is communicative style? What cultural function does it have? Do
    you have any experience of different/contrasting communicative
    styles (other than that of Japanese)?

2.  What is Japanese communicative style like, and what language
    ideologies are expressed through this style? Please bring examples
    of communicative styles and their related language ideologies.

3.  Agar uses the term languaculture to emphasize the necessary
    relationship between language and culture. What is the concept of
    amae, and how does it demonstrate Agar’s concept of
    languaculture? (pg. 217).

4.  What is indirection and how is it used in Japanese?

5.  What are the different directive strategies that Japanese mothers
    use for language training (Table 11.1 and pg 222-228)? Bring
    examples of these directives in American babytalk or other languages
    and cultures you are familiar with.

6.  Explain the mother’s response to Y refusing to lend his toys to
    another child as an example of early empathy training (233). What
    metapragmatic functions does this have?

7.  How do Japanese mothers use role-playing routines (236-237)? Can
    this role-playing be seen in cultures that you are familiar with?

8.  Explain how the directive strategies used by the mothers also
    teach conformity. What metapragmatic functions and language
    ideologies does this entail?

9.  In what context do Japanese mothers directly contradict their
    children (i.e. saying no), and when do they not? How does this
    relate to Japanese language ideology?

10. Explain Clancy’s methodology and potential drawbacks it could have
    on the study.
