---
...

Learning to Listen – Nevins
===========================

1 December
----------

1.  What are Western and Apache views on the relationship between the
    researcher and the community? How do these views factor into
    language revitalization efforts?

2.  Explain the Ndee Biyati’ project and why it failed.

3.  Based on Nevins’ article, why do you think the community sees Apache
    as in decline, despite there being a language requirement in school,
    tribal council positions, the local radio station, and some local
    churches? (See p. 271)

4.  How do the author’s experiences help to illustrate the concept of
    languaculture?

5.  How does teasing in Apache (278) relate to teasing in Japanese, as
    seen in Noella’s article? How do Apache parents socialize language?
    What does this mean for language revitalization efforts?

6.  Explain the relevance of the headlights example on page 276. Can you
    come up with any other examples in languages you know where a
    traditionally grammatical sentence is not necessarily the most
    fluent way to say something?

7.  What do you think Mr. Cruz means when he says, on page 283, that
    “<span>\[</span>The school<span>\]</span> might be using some
    Apache-sounding words, but what they were really teaching kids
    is English. They think they are teaching the kids the Apache word
    nakih, but they don’t teach the kids nakih; instead they are
    teaching ‘nakih means two.’”? Also consider Benjamin Benaly’s views
    on spelling.

8.  How does the example of learning to make bread (p. 280) illustrate
    the difference between Western and Apache conceptions of appropriate
    pedagogy?

9.  How is morality and linguistic competency intertwined? What does
    this mean for achieving fluency, as well as for the family’s place
    in society? Could concerns about language loss are tied to greater
    concerns about shifting social values? (281-283)

10. Explain the conflicts that could arise when using the internet in
    teaching Apache. (See p. 282 and fn. 14).

11. Is there a difference between the language change the author
    describes in Apache (284) and language change in English? If so,
    why, or why not? (Make sure to think about this in the context
    of colonialization).
