Homework 1: Phonetics vs. Phonology
===================================

Edward Hernández
----------------

26 January
----------

1.  Since producing nasal sounds causes air to leak through the vocal
    folds, sounds immediately following nasals would be produced at
    least partially voiced. This would make it difficult to articulate a
    distinguishable consonant immediately following a nasal. To avoid
    this configuration, a language could simply voice all consonants
    which immediately follow nasals.

    voiceless C → voiced / nasal C \_\_\_

2.  Voiced stops are harder to produce, given that there is nowhere for
    the airflow to go. This difficulty increases the longer the closure
    is held, meaning that word-final voiced stops are even harder
    to produce. To avoid this difficulty, a language might make all
    word-final stops voiceless.

    voiced stop → voiceless / \_\_\_ \#

3.  Given that word-final vowels trail into voicelessness, speakers
    might have trouble distinguishing whether the vowel being
    articulated is meant to be short or long. To make the distinction
    more clear, languages might add an extra syllable at the end of
    words with long vowels, repeating the vowel.

    long V → V V / \_\_\_ \#

4.  Since this is a consistent pattern capturable by a rule, it
    is phonological.

    voiceless stop → aspirated / \# \_\_\_

5.  This is not a consistent, rule-governed pattern, so it is phonetic.

6.  This phenomenon happens "at least partially," rather than
    consistently completely. It is phonetic.

7.  This is a consistent, rule-governed pattern, so it is phonological.

    However, there is no rule needed, because we use /p, t, k/ as the
    actual phonemes, and the aspirated forms as allophones of them.
