\documentclass{article}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}

\title{Declaration of Sentiments and Resolutions}
\author{Elizabeth Cady Stanton}
\date{1848}

\begin{document}
\maketitle

When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one portion of
the family of man to assume among the people of the earth a position different
from that which they have hitherto occupied, but one to which the laws of
nature and of nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of
mankind requires that they should declare the causes that impel them to such a
course.

We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are created
equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights;
that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to
secure these rights governments are instituted, deriving their powers from the
consent of the governed. Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of
these rights, it is the right of those who suffer from it to refuse allegiance
to it, and to insist upon the institution of a new government, laying its
foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form, as to
them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness.

Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long established should not be
changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath
shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable,
than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed,
but when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same
object, evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their
duty to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future
security. Such has been the patient sufferance of the women under this
government, and such is now the necessity which constrains them to demand the
equal station to which they are entitled.

The history of mankind is a history of repeated injuries and usurpation on the
part of man toward woman, having in direct object the establishment of an
absolute tyranny over her. To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid
world.

He has not ever permitted her to exercise her inalienable right to the elective
franchise.

He has compelled her to submit to laws, in the formation of which she had no
voice.

He has withheld her from rights which are given to the most ignorant and
degraded men—both natives and foreigners.

Having deprived her of this first right as a citizen, the elective franchise,
thereby leaving her without representation in the halls of legislation, he has
oppressed her on all sides.

He has made her, if married, in the eye of the law, civilly dead.

He has taken from her all right in property, even to the wages she earns.

He has made her morally, an irresponsible being, as she can commit many crimes
with impunity, provided they be done in the presence of her husband. In the
covenant of marriage, she is compelled to promise obedience to her husband, he
becoming, to all intents and purposes, her master—the law giving him power to
deprive her of her liberty, and to administer chastisement.

He has so framed the laws of divorce, as to what shall be the proper causes of
divorce, in case of separation, to whom the guardianship of the children shall
be given; as to be wholly regardless of the happiness of the women—the law, in
all cases, going upon a false supposition of the supremacy of a man, and giving
all power into his hands.

After depriving her of all rights as a married woman, if single and the owner
of property, he has taxed her to support a government which recognizes her only
when her property can be made profitable to it.

He has monopolized nearly all the profitable employments, and from those she is
permitted to follow, she receives but a scanty remuneration.

He closes against her all the avenues to wealth and distinction, which he
considers most honorable to himself. As a teacher of theology, medicine, or
law, she is not known.

He has denied her the facilities for obtaining a thorough education—all
colleges being closed against her.

He allows her in church, as well as State, but a subordinate position, claiming
Apostolic authority for her exclusion from the ministry, and, with some
exceptions, from any public participation in the affairs of the Church.

He has created a false public sentiment by giving to the world a different code
of morals for men and women, by which moral delinquencies which exclude women
from society, are not only tolerated but deemed of little account in man.

He has usurped the prerogative of Jehovah himself, claiming it as his right to
assign for her a sphere of action, when that belongs to her conscience and her
God.

He has endeavored, in every way that he could to destroy her confidence in her
own powers, to lessen her self-respect, and to make her willing to lead a
dependent and abject life.

Now, in view of this entire disfranchisement of one-half the people of this
country, their social and religious degradation—in view of the unjust laws
above mentioned, and because women do feel themselves aggrieved, oppressed, and
fraudulently deprived of their most sacred rights, we insist that they have
immediate admission to all the rights and privileges which belong to them as
citizens of these United States.

In entering upon the great work before us, we anticipate no small amount of
misconception, misrepresentation, and ridicule; but we shall use every
instrumentality within our power to effect our object. We shall employ agents,
circulate tracts, petition the State and national Legislatures, and endeavor to
enlist the pulpit and the press in our behalf. We hope this Convention will be
followed by a series of Conventions, embracing every part of the country.

\clearpage

\emph{Whereas}, the great precept of nature is conceded to be, ``that man shall
pursue his own true and substantial happiness,'' Blackstone, in his
Commentaries, remarks, that this law of Nature being coeval with mankind, and
dictated by God himself, is of course superior in obligation to any other.1  It
is binding over all the globe, in all countries, and at all times; no human
laws are of any validity if contrary to this, and such of them as are valid,
derive all their force, and all their validity, and all their authority,
mediately and immediately, from this original; Therefore,

\emph{Resolved}, That such laws as conflict, in any way, with the true and
substantial happiness of woman, are contrary to the great precept of nature,
and of no validity; for this is ``superior in obligation to any other.''

\emph{Resolved}, That all laws which prevent woman from occupying such a
station in society as her conscience shall dictate, or which place her in a
position inferior to that of man, are contrary to the great precept of nature,
and therefore of no force or authority.

\emph{Resolved}, That woman is man's equal—was intended to be so by the
Creator, and the highest good of the race demands that she should be recognized
as such.

\emph{Resolved}, That the women of this country ought to be enlightened in
regard to the laws under which they -live, that they may no longer publish
their degradation, by declaring themselves satisfied with their present
position, nor their ignorance, by asserting that they have all the rights they
want.

\emph{Resolved}, That inasmuch as man, while claiming for himself intellectual
superiority, does accord to woman moral superiority, it is pre-eminently his
duty to encourage her to speak, and teach, as she has an opportunity, in all
religious assemblies.

\emph{Resolved}, That the same amount of virtue, delicacy, and refinement of
behavior, that is required of woman in the social state, should also be
required of man, and the same transgressions should be visited with equal
severity on both man and woman.

\emph{Resolved}, That the objection of indelicacy and impropriety, which is so
often brought against woman when she addresses a public audience, comes with a
very ill grace from those who encourage, by their attendance, her appearance on
the stage, in the concert, or in the feats of the circus.

\emph{Resolved}, That woman has too long rested satisfied in the circumscribed
limits which corrupt customs and a perverted application of the Scriptures have
marked out for her, and that it is time she should move in the enlarged sphere
which her great Creator has assigned her.

\emph{Resolved}, That it is the duty of the women of this country to secure to
themselves their sacred right to the elective franchise.3

\emph{Resolved}, That the equality of human rights results necessarily from the
fact of the identity of the race in capabilities and responsibilities.

\emph{Resolved}, therefore, That, being invested by the Creator with the same
capabilities, and the same consciousness of responsibility for their exercise,
it is demonstrably the right and duty of woman, equally with man, to promote
every righteous cause, by every righteous means; and especially in regard to
the great subjects of morals and religion, it is self-evidently her right to
participate with her brother in teaching them, both in private and in public,
by writing and by speaking, by any instrumentalities proper to be used, and in
any assemblies proper to be held; and this being a self-evident truth, growing
out of the divinely implanted principles of human nature, any custom or
authority adverse to it, whether modern or wearing the hoary sanction of
antiquity, is to be regarded as self-evident falsehood, and at war with the
interests of mankind. 

\emph{Resolved}, That the speedy success of our cause depends upon the zealous
and untiring efforts of both men and women, for the overthrow of the monopoly
of the pulpit, and for the securing to woman an equal participation with men in
the various trades, professions and commerce.

\end{document}

\end{document}
